In the slides, which you should all
have access to, as we go along, there'll
be links to GitHub repositories, that
we'll be going over with our exercises.
So you'll see those links and it'll say
repo down in the bottom right corner.
They'll come to repos like this.
This will be the first one we're
actually gonna go through.
And I just wanna to point out real
quickly the mechanics of these repos.
The main branch on the repo has
the readme that describes the project so
it's got all your instructions on kind
of how to orient and that kind of thing.
And then we've got you can do this from
the command line you can do it from the UI
and whatever your is your favorite way of
interacting with it I like to just get
clone and do it from the command line.
But there are branches in here and
there's a start here branch and
that's where you wanna start,
when you're gonna work on the workshop.
So the start here branch will have
the basic files already created for you.
And then for each of these workshops,
you'll see option one, option two, three,
four, etc., for
each of the different workshops.
Those are progressively more and more or
different ways of doing
the solution to the problem.
The reason I did them as branches is it's
real easy in the UI to do a diff between
two branches you can also do
that from the command line.
So you can check and
see I missed something or
something he did didn't
work quite the same way.
Just diff the, if we're on option two diff
one to option two or start here to option
one or whatever and you can see
anything that you might have missed.
So hopefully those diffs are helpful for
you just as you're keeping up.
I'd also mentioned that if for whatever
reason we're gonna be doing a lot of live
coding in the workshop, but if for
whatever reason you get behind or
something isn't working for
you exactly, quite right.
You're welcome to ask questions and
we can try to do a little
troubleshooting or tips or whatever.
But if for some reason you are behind,
you don't have to stay behind just simply
stash your work and
switch to the new to the branch.
So again, if we're getting ready to do
the option two solution you switch to
the option one branch which is the base.
Just, stash your changes, switch to option
one, and then you're good to go for
the next portion.
One other little note is that each one of
the exercises that we're gonna work on
are designed to be run in a web context.
Which means from the root
directory of that repo checkout,
you wanna run some sort of a web server.
Some people like to do that from
inside of their code editor or IDE.
Some people like to do it
from the command line.
I always do like NPX, HTTP server, but
whatever your favorite way of running just
a local host web server, you don't
need anything else fancy than that.
But we make fetch for a JSON file and
you can't do that on the file system so.
You wanna make sure you
run a local web server so
that you can run it in the browser.
So I'm gonna pull up for example, I've
got a web server running for localhost,
localhost port 8080 is what I choose.
And here's that first exercise pull
up in a browser, nothing fancy, but
that's what you wanna be able to see.
In a browser, when you go to localhost and
whatever port you choose,
we're ready for our first laboratory
exercise our first official exercise,
you notice the link there
to the workshop repository.
This is periodic table speller
is the name of this problem.
So we're gonna dive into
the periodic table speller.
Go ahead and make sure you have that
repository cloned in your local system.
You're gonna want to be
on the Start Here branch,
you're gonna want to have your
local web server running, so
that you can pull up the index html file
in a web page, Port 8080 or whatever.
What is this exercise all about?
Well, don't be scared if you're not
like me, not one of the science folks.
When I look at a periodic table,
I'm like, I know, like, oxygen.
That's about it.
I don't know what all this stuff is my
kids actually have more than half of this
periodic table memorized.
I'm we didn't do that when I was a kid
they didn't ask us to learn the periodic
table.
My kids have a song that they sing all the
periodic table elements it's incredible.
Anyway, I got inspired because my
daughter had a little assignment.
Where they asked her to spell out
some words that were meaningful
to her using only the symbols
from the periodic table.
And I thought that was
a cool little assignment.
And so she had come up with
a couple of different words.
And I was trying to think of words to help
her with and then of course, my programmer
brain went to, this got to be a thing that
solved or a thing that can be written.
And it turns out there is a website that
does this you can find that website you
can type it in.
But it was a little bit annoying to me
that they use not only the periodic table
elements which was her assignment.
But they also use like a Physics
characters, like epsilon and
stuff like that from other parts of
science, not just the periodic table.
And that wasn't part of her assignment,
so I got annoyed by that and
I was I'm gonna write the code to do
this just from the periodic table.
And so that's the little code the tool
that we're gonna build a periodic
table speller.
So the word because can be spelled
out with these I don't even have to
pronounce it as a beryllium anybody
know calcium uranium and selenium.
It spells outwards so
you can't spell all words but
many words that you can spell out.
And we're gonna write the code
do that immediately I want
your brains is you're listening to this,
to go to, how am I gonna do that?
Where would I start?
What is the first questions
that we need to ask about this?
Remember, I'm trying to help you learn
the discipline of approaching problems
thinking as an algorithmic
thinking in algorithms
before you start to write the code for
the algorithm.
So as an algorithmic,
what should you be thinking?
What should you be asking yourself?
Anyone have any suggestions for
questions that we should be asked if
given this assignment,
given this task at work, for example.
What are the clarifying question
that we ought to be asking?
Yeah.
>> Are we allowed partial matches or
are we required to spell the entire word?
>> Are we allowed to leave off letters or
spell only part of the word?
Great question I think we're gonna assume
that you either spelled the whole word and
nothing but the word.
But that's a great question.
Maybe we ought to allow it to leave
off the trailing characters, or
the leading characters, or something.
But for this exercise, we will either
match the whole word or none of the word.
Good question, what else?
There's a real obvious
one on the screen here.
I just wondered if anybody
would pick up on it.
Yeah.
>> It doesn't seem like
capitalization matters.
>> See?
Casing, right?
Do we want to require
the capitalization of the first letter?
Do we want to allow any casing?
Here we're gonna assume that
we've got whatever we input.
We'll make sure that's all lowercase and
we'll match the symbols case insensitive.
That'll make our problems
significantly easier.
But you absolutely could identify that so
you're already asking exactly the right
kinds of questions is going to lead to
a very different algorithmic outcome.
These are not minor details afterwards
these are very important things that
we have to catch up front because they
may take us on a very different path
any other questions?
>> There's some from chat.
>> Yeah, what do we got?
>> Can we repeat using an element?
>> Very good question.
Answer for this one definitely we want
to allow repeating an element because
the same series of characters might end
up appearing multiple times in the word,
absolutely
>> Do all the element names have one or
two letters?
>> Very good question which leads to
a question may not have yet been obvious
to any of you all of the periodic table
elements do have one or two characters.
But how are we gonna decide whether we
want words that are the longest possible
meaning the most number of elements?
That would be one where we prefer
single letter elements versus
the two letter elements?
Or do we wanna spell the words
with the fewest number of symbols?
So we're gonna prefer the two character.
Those would lead to potentially
very different outcomes.
In some cases, the same outcome.
But in some words,
you would get a very different spelling of
it if you optimized for
more symbols or fewer symbols.
All very good questions,
there's probably more to it.
Here's one of the most practical
ones that I started with.
Where am I gonna get the data from?
I don't know the periodic table.
Where am I going to get it from?
I Googled around, and
I happened to find a JSON file that
had the whole periodic table in it.
And I did a little bit of processing on
it to filter out some of the data that I
didn't care about and
keep only the data that I did.
And that's included with our project,
so you don't need to go find that.
But sometimes it's as simple as,
where do I find my dataset to start with?
And in this case, thankfully,
it wasn't that difficult.
All right, let me switch over
to the actual Speller here.
I've got this loaded and running.
I've got a web server
again in the background.
I've got this loaded and running.
You'll notice that when I type in
the word because and I click spell,
it couldn't spell it because we
haven't written the algorithm yet.
So that's what we get on
the Start Here Branch is a functional but
not complete project.
I wanna orient you a little
bit to the code, but
this basically is the same as
the instructions that are in the readme.
So remember that there's a readme on the
main branch that has these instructions
and I'm just gonna kinda walk
you through the same stuff here.
So if you need to refer back or miss any
thing that's what we're going through so
I'm gonna switch over to the code editor.
And I'll just orient you and
start here branch we start with index
study HTML file pretty basic stuff.
We're not gonna make any changes
to the HTML in this project.
But just so
you're aware of what it's doing,
it's got an input box to enter in
the word, it's got a button to spell it,
and then there's a div for
us to place the word spelling.
We load up our app module which again
all of this code is already written for
you, you don't need to touch
any of the code in app.js.
But just to familiarize ourselves with
it we grab some references to those
functions and we set up a couple of
click handler and key down handlers.
We do a little bit of validation here,
which is that you have to have
provided at least three characters.
We could have allowed two characters, but
it just doesn't seem that
interesting to have a single one.
So you got to have at
least three letters long.
And then we invoke the speller.check
that's in another module, and
that's the code we're gonna write.
And then to spell the word we,
once we get back a list of symbols and
array of symbols.
If it matched to spell the word we
need to be able to call the lookup
method on that same module
to pull out the elements.
So we have the symbol, but
I want the whole elements I want its name,
its atomic number and it's symbol back.
So we need to have a lookup.
So we see those two methods,
we see the check and the lookup method.
And if we switch over to the speller,
module speller.js.
You'll note here that it automatically
does the work of loading up our
JSON for us.
So that file is already in your
project and already loads for us.
And all we need to do is
handle these to do comments.
There's the check function and
the lookup function should be fairly
straightforward and self explanatory.
Again, refer to the readme if
you're curious about it, but
the check function should always return
an array empty if it's got nothing.
And full of the symbols as strings,
if it was able to spell the input word.
The lookup takes one of those strings and
returns the object.
If open up our JSON file you'll note that
each entry has a name, number, and symbol.
So given the symbol in lowercase,
we need to return this whole object.
That's what the lookup function does.